---
slug: where-will-ai-outperform-humans
publishDate: 2023-01-27T07:01:14Z
author: Ranjani Mani
title: Where will AI outperform humans? 
excerpt: Where will AI outperform (replace) humans? OR Why AI models will replace artists long before they’ll replace programmers I get various versions of this question. While the field is so rapidly moving, making it almost impossible to predict – here is an interesting take (article in comments) “Contrary to the common view that creativity will  ... 
category: 21
---

Where will AI outperform (replace) humans?

OR Why AI models will replace artists long before they’ll replace programmers

I get various versions of this question.

While the field is so rapidly moving, making it almost impossible to predict – here is an interesting take (article in comments)

“Contrary to the common view that creativity will be the last bastion of human ingenuity in the face of automation, it actually appears to be far easier to automate rather difficult creative tasks than to automate relatively simple programming tasks.

To get a sense of this say we compare two popular use cases for generative AI: code generation and image generation. 

..In its current form, AI can make coding somewhat more efficient, it doesn’t obviate the need for capable software developers with programming knowledge.

One big reason is that, when it comes to building a program, correctness really matters. If AI generates a program, it still requires a human to verify it is correct — an effort at nearly the same level as creating it to begin with.

On the other hand, anyone who can type can use a model like Stable Diffusion to produce high-quality, one-of-a-kind images in minutes, at many orders of magnitude less cost.

Creative work products often do not have strict correctness constraints, and the outputs of the models are stunningly complete”

“Who knows: One day, a late-2022 archive of the internet may be treasured as one of the last mostly human-generated content repositories”

What areas do you think AI will replace?

Image generated by Midjourney

Read more here : <https://a16z.com/2022/11/16/creativity-as-an-app/>

\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*

[Ranjani Mani](https://www.linkedin.com/feed/#)

**#reviewswithranjani** **#GenerativeAI**

**#Technology** | **#Books** | **#BeingBetter**